.\" Manpage for gfal-mkdir
.\"
.TH GFAL-MKDIR 1 "October 2013" "v1.0.0"
.SH NAME
gfal-mkdir \- make directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gfal-mkdir 
[
.B "-h"
] [
.B -V
] [
.B -v
] [
.B -D 
.I DEFINITION
] [
.B -t 
.I TIMEOUT
] [
.B -p
] \fIDIRECTORY\fR...


.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gfal-mkdir
Create the DIRECTORY(ies), if they do not already exist. By default, it creates them with mode 0755.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.B "-h, --help"
show help about the command.
.TP
.B "-V, --version"
output version information and exit.
.TP
.B "-v, --verbose"
verbose mode. Repeat up to 3 times for the most verbose mode.
.TP
.B "-d, --definition"
define properties for gfal2.
.TP 
.B "-t, --timeout"
global timeout for the execution of the command. Command is interrupted if time expires before it finishes.
.TP
.B "-m, --mode"
set file mode (as in chmod). If not specified, 0755 is used. Depending on the storage implementation, it might not be used.
.TP 
.B "-p, --parents"
no error if existing, make parent directories as needed.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B gfal-mkdir
-p -m 0700 file:///tmp/path1/path2
.PP
.TP
.B gfal-mkdir
srm://endpoint.cern.ch/path/directory1 srm://endpoint.cern.ch/path/directory2

.SH FILES
.I /etc/gfal2.d/*
.RS 
All configuration files in this directory affect the behavior of the underlying gfal2.

.SH AUTHORS
Duarte Meneses <duarte.meneses@cern.ch>
.br
Adrien Devresse <adrien.devresse@cern.ch>
.br
Alejandro Alvarez Ayllon <alejandro.alvarez.ayllon@cern.ch>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gfal-copy (1),
.BR gfal-rm (1),
.BR gfal-cat (1),
.BR gfal-save (1),
.BR gfal-mkdir (1),
.BR gfal-ls (1),
.BR gfal-xattr (1)

