.\" Manpage for gfal-copy
.\"
.TH GFAL-COPY 1 "March 2022" "v1.7.1"
.SH NAME
gfal-copy \- Copy files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gfal-copy
[
.I OPTION
]...
.I SOURCE
.I DEST1
[
.I DEST2
]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gfal-copy
Copies files from source to destination(s). If several destinations are specified, the file will be copy in a chain: src -> dst1, dst1 -> dst2, ... If used in an interactive console, transfer information will be giving during the copy, which varies depending on the available information. This command can be used to upload local files to remote file systems and to register files in the file catalog (see examples).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "-h, --help"
show help about the command.
.TP
.B "-V, --version"
output version information and exit.
.TP
.B "-v, --verbose"
verbose mode. Repeat up to 3 times for the most verbose mode.
.TP
.BI "-D, --definition " DEFINITION
define properties for gfal2. Definitions have the following syntax: "CONFIG_GROUP:KEY=VALUE"
.TP
.BI "-t, --timeout " TIMEOUT
global timeout for the execution of the command. Command is interrupted if time expires before it finishes. Note: A grace period of 30 seconds is given to the global timeout.
.TP
.BI "-E, --cert " CERT
user certificate. (This option takes effect only after X509_USER_PROXY environment variable and default /tmp/x509up_u`id -u` location cannot provide a certificate)
.TP
.BI "--key " KEY
user private key.
.TP
.B "-4"
forces Gfal2 to use IPv4 addresses only. (Option valid only for GridFTP protocol)
.TP
.B "-6"
forces Gfal2 to use IPv6 addresses only. (Option valid only for GridFTP protocol)
.TP
.BI "-C, --client-info " CLIENT_INFO
provide custom client-side information.
.TP
.BI "--log-file " LOG_FILE
write Gfal2 library logs to the given file location.
.TP
.B "-f, --force"
if destination file(s) cannot be overwritten, delete it and try again.
.TP
.B "-p, --parent"
if the destination directory does not exist, create it.
.TP
.BI "-n, --nbstreams " NBSTREAMS
specify the maximum number of parallel streams to use for the copy.
.TP
.BI "--tcp-buffersize " TCP_BUFFERSIZE
specify the TCP buffersize.
.TP
.BI "-s, --src-spacetoken " SRC_SPACETOKEN
source spacetoken to use for the transfer.
.TP
.BI "-S, --dst-spacetoken " DST_SPACETOKEN
destination spacetoken to use for the transfer.
.TP
.BI "-T, --transfer-timeout " TRANSFER_TIMEOUT
timeout for the transfer operation. This timeout is enforced by each plugin, so it applies to the transfer operation only. Ensure it is equal or smaller than "--timeout" setting.
.TP
.BI "-K, --checksum " CHECKSUM
checksum algorithm to use, or algorithm:value.
.TP
.BI "--checksum-mode " CHECKSUM_MODE
checksum validation mode: 'source', 'target' or 'both'.
.TP
.BI "--from-file " FROM_FILE
read sources from a file.
.TP
.BI "--copy-mode " COPY_MODE
select the TPC copy mode: 'pull', 'push' or 'streamed'. (Option valid only for HTTP protocol)
.TP
.B "--just-copy"
just do the copy and skip any preparation (i.e. checksum, overwrite, stats etc.). Warning: use of this switch is incompatible with the presence of directories in the argument list.
.TP
.B "--no-delegation"
disable TPC with proxy delegation.
.TP
.B "--evict"
evict source file from disk buffer when the transfer is finished.
.TP
.B "-r, --recursive"
copy directories recursively.
.TP
.B "--abort-on-failure"
abort the whole copy as soon as one failure is encountered.
.TP
.B "--dry-run"
print what would have happened without any actual change.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Copy a file to srm://endpoint.cern.ch/path/group, preferring a protocol as specified in the configuration file:
.B gfal-copy file:///etc/group srm://endpoint.cern.ch/path/
.PP
.TP
You can specify directly a protocol, if you know that it is supported by the end point:
.B gfal-copy file:///tmp/test gsiftp://endpoint.cern.ch/path/test
.PP
.TP
.TP
Do a chained copy:
.B gfal-copy file:///tmp/test gsiftp://endpoint.cern.ch/path/test file:///tmp/test2
.PP
.TP
Registration of a file in the LFC:
.B gfal-copy file:///tmp/source gsiftp://endpoint.cern.ch/path/test lfc://lfc-host.cern.ch/lfn

.SH FILES
.I /etc/gfal2.d/*
.RS
All configuration files in this directory affect the behavior of the underlying gfal2, in particular, the default choice of transfer protocols.

.SH AUTHORS
Duarte Meneses <duarte.meneses@cern.ch>
.br
Adrien Devresse <adrien.devresse@cern.ch>
.br
Alejandro Alvarez Ayllon <alejandro.alvarez.ayllon@cern.ch>
.br
Andrea Manzi <andrea.manzi@cern.ch>
.br
Mihai Patrascoiu <mihai.patrascoiu@cern.ch>
.br
Joao Lopes <joao.pedro.batista.lopes@cern.ch>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gfal-cat (1),
.BR gfal-chmod (1),
.BR gfal-copy (1),
.BR gfal-ls (1),
.BR gfal-mkdir (1),
.BR gfal-rename (1),
.BR gfal-rm (1),
.BR gfal-save (1),
.BR gfal-stat (1),
.BR gfal-sum (1),
.BR gfal-token (1),
.BR gfal-xattr (1),
.BR gfal-evict (1),
.BR gfal-bringonline (1),
.BR gfal-archivepoll (1)
