.\" Manpage for gfal-rename
.\"
.TH GFAL-RENAME 1 "December 2014" "v1.2.0"
.SH NAME
gfal-rename \- Renames files or directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gfal-rename
[
.B "-h"
] [
.B -V
] [
.B -v
] [
.B -D
.I DEFINITION
] [
.B -C
.I CLIENT-INFO
] [
.B -t
.I TIMEOUT
]
.I SOURCE
.I DESTINATION

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gfal-rename
Renames SOURCE to DESTINATION.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "-h, --help"
show help about the command.
.TP
.B "-V, --version"
output version information and exit.
.TP
.B "-v, --verbose"
verbose mode. Repeat up to 3 times for the most verbose mode.
.TP
.B "-D, --definition"
define properties for gfal2.
.TP
.B "-C, --client-info"
provide custom client-side information
.TP
.B "-t, --timeout"
global timeout for the execution of the command. Command is interrupted if time expires before it finishes.
.TP
.B "-E, --cert"
user certificate
.TP
.B "--key"
user private key
.TP
.B "-4"
Forces gfal2-util to use IPv4 addresses only (if the plugin supports this)
.TP
.B "-6"
Forces gfal2-util to use IPv6 addresses only (if the plugin supports this)

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B gfal-rename
file:///tmp/original file:///tmp/newname

.SH FILES
.I /etc/gfal2.d/*
.RS
All configuration files in this directory affect the behavior of the underlying gfal2.

.SH AUTHORS
Duarte Meneses <duarte.meneses@cern.ch>
.br
Adrien Devresse <adrien.devresse@cern.ch>
.br
Alejandro Alvarez Ayllon <alejandro.alvarez.ayllon@cern.ch>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gfal-cat (1),
.BR gfal-chmod (1),
.BR gfal-copy (1),
.BR gfal-ls (1),
.BR gfal-mkdir (1),
.BR gfal-rename (1),
.BR gfal-rm (1),
.BR gfal-save (1),
.BR gfal-stat (1),
.BR gfal-sum (1),
.BR gfal-xattr (1)