.\" Manpage for gfal-evict
.\"
.TH GFAL-EVICT 1 "April 2021" "v1.8.0"
.SH NAME
gfal-evict \- Evict file from a disk buffer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gfal-evict
[
.I "OPTION"
]...
.I FILE
[
.I TOKEN
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gfal-evict
This command evicts a file from a disk buffer
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "-h, --help"
show help about the command.
.TP
.B "-V, --version"
output version information and exit.
.TP
.B "-v, --verbose"
verbose mode. Repeat up to 3 times for the most verbose mode.
.TP
.B "-D, --definition"
define properties for gfal2.
.TP
.B "-C, --client-info"
provide custom client-side information
.TP
.B "-t, --timeout"
global timeout for the execution of the command. Command is interrupted if time expires before it finishes.
.TP
.B "-E, --cert"
user certificate
.TP
.B "--key"
user private key
.TP
.B FILE
URI to the file to be evicted
.TP
.B TOKEN
The token from the bring online request. Optional argument for some protocols (For example: xrootd)
.TP

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Evict a file from a disk buffer
.B gfal-evict https://endpoint.cern.ch/path/file

.SH FILES
.I /etc/gfal2.d/*
.RS
All configuration files in this directory affect the behavior of the underlying gfal2.

.SH AUTHORS
Duarte Meneses <duarte.meneses@cern.ch>
.br
Adrien Devresse <adrien.devresse@cern.ch>
.br
Alejandro Alvarez Ayllon <alejandro.alvarez.ayllon@cern.ch>
.br
Mihai Patrascoiu <mihai.patrascoiu@cern.ch>
.br
Joao Lopes <joao.pedro.batista.lopes@cern.ch>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gfal-cat (1),
.BR gfal-chmod (1),
.BR gfal-copy (1),
.BR gfal-ls (1),
.BR gfal-mkdir (1),
.BR gfal-rename (1),
.BR gfal-rm (1),
.BR gfal-save (1),
.BR gfal-stat (1),
.BR gfal-sum (1),
.BR gfal-xattr (1)